# `computed-settings`

_Computed_ settings in [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com).

> This is a work in progress. Configuration files may be lost, so please make
> sure to back them up.

## Features

### Configuration imports

A configuration file (such as `.vscode/settings.json` or the user's preferences)
may import other configuration files using the `imports` option as follows:

```jsonc
{
  "computed-settings.imports": [
    "./foo.jsonc"
  ],

  "editor.tabSize": 3
}
```

The imported files will then be resolved relatively to the configuration file,
and their configuration will be flattened. Assuming that `foo.jsonc` contains
the following:

```jsonc
{
  "editor.minimap.enabled": true,
  "editor.tabSize": 5
}
```

Then the initial file will be updated like this:

```jsonc
{
  "computed-settings.imports": [
    "./foo.jsonc"
  ],

  "editor.tabSize": 3,

  // #region Generated by https://github.com/71/computed-settings
  "editor.minimap.enabled": true
  // #endregion Generated by https://github.com/71/computed-settings
}
```

Please note:

1. The current configuration takes precedence over imported configurations; i.e.
   `editor.tabSize` is not replaced by the imported value.
2. Configurations are imported recursively, i.e. `foo.jsonc` may also have
   imports above.
3. If multiple imports are specified, they are merged as follows:
   - Arrays are merged shallowly, i.e. only top-level arrays are merged.
   - Latter imports take precedence over former ones when a choice must be made,
     i.e. when a property is not assigned to an array.

### JSON Schema generation

[JSON Schemas](https://json-schema.org) corresponding to the possible
configuration values can be generated and written to the disk.

There are two ways to generate the configuration on disk:

1. In a JSON file, start typing `"$schema":` at the start of the file (after
   `{`); a completion `"$schema": "..."` will be made available. If you select
   it, the schema will be generated in the same directory under the name
   `.computed-settings.schema.json`.
   - After generating this line, a quick-fix will also be available on this line
     to update the generated file.
2. In `settings.json`, add a `json.schemas` with an entry whose file name ends
   with `computed-settings.schema.json`, e.g.
   ```jsonc
   {
     "json.schemas": [
       {
         "fileMatch": [
           "*.jsonc"
         ],
         "url": ".vscode/.computed-settings.schema.json"
       }
     ]
   }
   ```
   When this option is present, a schema will automatically be generated. Note
   that the `url` is resolved relatively to the workspace root.

> Note: these schemas are generated using the configuration options of VS Code
> at a given version (as of now, [1.77](src/vscode-config-schema/1.77.json)),
> and combining them with the configuration options provided by the currently
> loaded extensions. If extensions change or if the included VS Code config
> schema is out of date, the generated schema may not entirely be accurate.

## Partial features

The following features are partially implemented, with possible errors and poor
diagnostics.

### Nickel support

To provide more power to computed settings, [Nickel](https://nickel-lang.org)
file may also be imported.

Features:

- [x] Nickel files can be imported, and may import other Nickel files
- [ ] Errors are reported as diagnostics in VS Code
- [ ] Schema generation for Nickel files
- [ ] Using schema information to allow dotted properties

To import Nickel files, simply specify a `.ncl` extension when importing a file:

```jsonc
{
  "computed-settings.imports": [
    "./foo.ncl",
    "./bar.json"
  ]
}
```

### Imports into other files

Since files other than `settings.json` may benefit from being cut into multiple
files, an `importInto` option is provided as well:

```jsonc
{
  "computed-settings.importInto": {
    "tasks.json": [
      "./shared-tasks.json"
    ],
    "keybindings.json": [
      "../shared-keybindings.json"
    ]
  }
}
```

This will perform the same import process as `imports`, but the computed
configuration will be appended to the specified files.

## Planned features

1. Tests:
   1. Import tests.
   2. Import-into tests.
   3. Schema generation tests.
   4. Array-merging tests.
   5. Ensuring that it works in VSCodium.
   6. Ensuring that it works in remote contexts and in the browser.
   7. Gotchas:
      1. Recursive imports
      2. Shared imports
      3. Non-relative imports
2. Computation in JSON strings:
   1. Evaluation of `${env:...}` / `${workspaceFolder}` interpolations
   2. Conditionals
   3. Special `${import:}` interpolations
3. More languages:
   1. YAML
   2. TOML
   3. (Maybe) Jsonnet, Cue, Dhall
4. Other merging strategies:
   1. (Maybe) Merge up to a specified depth
   2. (Maybe) Merge using schema information
5. Schema generation:
   1. Show quick-fix in `settings.json` under `json.schemas` to refresh the
      generated schema
   2. Detect whether the generated schema is out-of-date and only display a
      quick-fix if it is
   3. Support for other files:
      1. `keybindings.json`
      2. `tasks.json`
      3. `launch.json`
